---
layout: post
title: Quickly Jumping to Crashing Thread in OpenJDK with GDB
---

I have been hacking on OpenJDK for some years now. It is very easy to cause the VM to explode (intentionally or unintentionally) so I have spent a lot of time in GDB debugging it. With the flag `-XX:+ShowMessageBoxOnError` the JVM will ask you if you want to jump into a GDB session if a crash occurs. Many applications may create a lot of threads, but even the VM will have a bunch of them (the more cores, the more threads it would use). To find the thread that caused the crash one needs to find the frame that has `__GI___wait4`. Until recently I did this process manually, then I realized that there should be a better way.

Asking ChatGPT it turns out that GDB has some Python bindings allowing us to automate this process.

Step (1) create a file `switch_to_crash_thread_jvm.gdb`.
```python
python
import gdb

class SwitchThread(gdb.Command):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__("jdk", gdb.COMMAND_USER)

    def invoke(self, arg, from_tty):
        pagination_setting = gdb.parameter("pagination")
        gdb.execute("set pagination off")

        threads = gdb.selected_inferior().threads()
        for thread in threads:
            gdb.execute("thread {}".format(thread.num))
            frame = gdb.selected_frame()
            if frame.name() == "__GI___wait4":
                print("Switched to thread {}".format(thread.num))
                break

        gdb.execute("set pagination on")

SwitchThread()
end
```

Step (2) add to your `~/.gdbinit` file `source /home/jonas/.gdb/switch_to_crash_thread_jvm.gdb`.

Next time the JVM crashes you can type `jdk` in GDB to quickly jump to the thread that caused the crash. Pretty neat!

__Disclaimer: As I did this during an exploration of the limitations of ChatGPT the above code was generated by it. ChatGPT is so far not a good coder, as I needed to give it a lot of follow-up instructions for it to be able to produce correct code. In hindsight, it would have been faster to just look at the documentation.__